---
kind: paper
title: "In-depth Analysis of Graph-based RAG in a Unified Framework"
slug: 2503.04338
status: discovered
arxiv_id: 2503.04338
arxiv_url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.04338
authors:
  - Yingli Zhou
  - Yaodong Su
  - Youran Sun
  - Shu Wang
  - Taotao Wang
  - Runyuan He
  - Yongwei Zhang
  - Sicong Liang
  - Xilin Liu
  - Yuchi Ma
  - Yixiang Fang
category: Computer Science
published: 2025-01-01
added: 2026-05-19
---

## Abstract

Graph-based Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has proven effective in integrating external knowledge into large language models (LLMs), improving their factual accuracy, adaptability, interpretability, and trustworthiness. A number of graph-based RAG methods have been proposed in the literature. However, these methods have not been systematically and comprehensively compared under the same experimental settings. In this paper, we first summarize a unified framework to incorporate all graph-based RAG methods from a high-level perspective. We then extensively compare representative graph-based RAG methods over a range of questing-answering (QA) datasets - from specific questions to abstract questions - and examine the effectiveness of all methods, providing a thorough analysis of graph-based RAG approaches. As a byproduct of our experimental analysis, we are also able to identify new variants of the graph-based RAG methods over specific QA and abstract QA tasks respectively, by combining existing techniques, which outperform the state-of-the-art methods. Finally, based on these findings, we offer promising research opportunities. We believe that a deeper understanding of the behavior of existing methods can provide new valuable insights for future research.

## Notes

<!-- Add notes here -->
