---
kind: paper
title: "VRAG-RL: Empower Vision-Perception-Based RAG for Visually Rich Information Understanding via Iterative Reasoning with Reinforcement Learning"
slug: 2505.22019
status: discovered
arxiv_id: 2505.22019
arxiv_url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.22019
authors:
  - Qiuchen Wang
  - Ruixue Ding
  - Yu Zeng
  - Zehui Chen
  - Lin Chen
  - Shihang Wang
  - Pengjun Xie
  - Fei Huang
  - Feng Zhao
category: Computer Science
published: 2025-01-01
added: 2026-05-19
---

## Abstract

Effectively retrieving, reasoning and understanding visually rich information remains a challenge for RAG methods. Traditional text-based methods cannot handle visual-related information. On the other hand, current vision-based RAG approaches are often limited by fixed pipelines and frequently struggle to reason effectively due to the insufficient activation of the fundamental capabilities of models. As RL has been proven to be beneficial for model reasoning, we introduce VRAG-RL, a novel RL framework tailored for complex reasoning across visually rich information. With this framework, VLMs interact with search engines, autonomously sampling single-turn or multi-turn reasoning trajectories with the help of visual perception tokens and undergoing continual optimization based on these samples. Our approach highlights key limitations of RL in RAG domains: (i) Prior Multi-modal RAG approaches tend to merely incorporate images into the context, leading to insufficient reasoning token allocation and neglecting visual-specific perception; and (ii) When models interact with search engines, their queries often fail to retrieve relevant information due to the inability to articulate requirements, thereby leading to suboptimal performance. To address these challenges, we define an action space tailored for visually rich inputs, with actions including cropping and scaling, allowing the model to gather information from a coarse-to-fine perspective. Furthermore, to bridge the gap between users' original inquiries and the retriever, we employ a simple yet effective reward that integrates query rewriting and retrieval performance with a model-based reward. Our VRAG-RL optimizes VLMs for RAG tasks using specially designed RL strategies, aligning the model with real-world applications. The code is available at https://github.com/Alibaba-NLP/VRAG.

## Notes

<!-- Add notes here -->
